# AQUISTO
FIJI-macros and R-Scripts for automatic quantification of whole histological sections (AQUISTO)
# “AQUISTO” - Principle and workflow

“AQUISTO” describes a methodical approach to quantify stainings in a histological section on a slide. Its aim is to provide a workflow collection or straightforward pipeline for standardized analysis of whole experimental sets. Automatic image acquisition of whole organ sections is followed by the generation of size reduced previews of every section on the slides with their slide labels and overview. These overviews are used to create a database with information about every scanned section (File_Names.csv) and experiment/staining (General_Information.csv) in the folder Registration_Tables. According to the information in these tables the files are renamed and sorted. In the next step a manual selection of the tissue area and if necessary the tissue compartments is done. With these selections the .tif-image files are created from the raw .czi-files. If the selection of a minor tissue (like glomeruli in the kidney or islets in the pancreas) tiles can be created as well. After these preparation steps a histogram analysis can be run, to show differences in staining intensity between the sections. They help finding aberrant samples. Parameters for nuclear recognition and marker segmentation are set in the next step. Then the processing of the DAPI channel and subsequently of all the other channels can be done. This results in a database with information about: Marker positive area and cell count and total cell count for the entire section, as well as for all selected tissue compartments. At last it is possible to run the standard analysis for data summary and the generation of overview graphs. Before running this step it is necessary to fill out the table “Groups.csv” in the analysis folder of the staining.

To get started: Download the required software (as described in the manual) and the folders "Registration Tables" and "AQUISTO_Macros", then execute the file "AQUISTO.R" located in "AQUISTO_Macros/R" and source the script.

Kessel, F. et al. New automatic quantification method of immunofluorescence and histochemistry in whole histological sections. Cell Signal 62, 109335, doi:10.1016/j.cellsig.2019.05.020 (2019).

For questions, please contact: friederike.kessel@ukdd.de
